**When to see a doctor about a fever
A mild fever can typically be treated at home. In some cases, however, a fever can be a symptom of a serious medical condition that requires prompt treatment.

You should take your infant to a doctor if they’re:

younger than 3 months old and have a temperature exceeding 100.4°F (38°C)
between 3 and 6 months old, have a temperature over 102°F (38.9°C), and seem unusually irritable, lethargic, or uncomfortable
between 6 and 24 months old and have a temperature higher than 102°F (38.9°C) that lasts longer than one day
You should take your child to see a doctor if they:

have a body temperature exceeding 102.2°F (39°C)
have had a fever for more than three days
make poor eye contact with you
seem restless or irritable
have recently had one or more immunizations
have a serious medical illness or a compromised immune system
have recently been in a developing country
You should call your doctor if you:

have a body temperature exceeding 103°F (39.4°C)
have had a fever for more than three days
have a serious medical illness or a compromised immune system
have recently been in a developing country
You or your child should also see a doctor as soon as possible if a fever is accompanied by any of the following symptoms:

a severe headache
throat swelling
a skin rash, especially if the rash gets worse
sensitivity to bright light
a stiff neck and neck pain
persistent vomiting
listlessness or irritability
abdominal pain
pain when urinating
muscle weakness
trouble breathing or chest pain
confusion
Your doctor will probably perform a physical examination and medical tests. This will help them determine the cause of the fever and an effective course of treatment.

When is a fever a medical emergency?
Go to the nearest emergency room or call 911 if you or your child is experiencing any of the following:

confusion
an inability to walk
trouble breathing
chest pain
seizures
hallucinations
inconsolable crying (in children)

How can a fever be prevented?
Limiting exposure to infectious agents is one of the best ways to prevent a fever. Infectious agents often cause body temperature to rise. Here are some tips that can help reduce your exposure:

Wash your hands often, especially before eating, after using the toilet, and after being around large numbers of people.
Show your children how to wash their hands properly. Instruct them to cover both the front and back of each hand with soap and rinse thoroughly under warm water.
Carry hand sanitizer or antibacterial wipes with you. They can come in handy when you don’t have access to soap and water. Find hand sanitizers and antibacterial wipes online.
Avoid touching your nose, mouth, or eyes. Doing so makes it easier for viruses and bacteria to enter your body and cause infection.
Cover your mouth when you cough and your nose when you sneeze. Teach your children to do the same.
Avoid sharing cups, glasses, and eating utensils with other people.
